it is time for
science perfect we're
live um we got a lot of stuff to do
today I have nothing to do all day
except um fix carbs and eat my meals
so the goal is going to be that over the
next roughly 12 to 14 hours we have had
hper parameter sweeps like in a good
spot for all of our that's going to be
the goal for today this is
good e
here we
go I do a little bit of promo here and
there okay
so this
is right here this is the Baseline that
we trained from yesterday so you can see
that it works uh 10 bill is the Max
total time STS it's also based on the
synthetic Benchmark this is what we want
it took longer than it should have to
get here but it did get
there batch size is correct I don't know
why it's sampling down here this is kind
of weird uh mini
batches also correct learning rate
is a little bit low but pretty well spot
on gamma .99 very good and then this is
averaging .95 very good good update epox
is correct PPD Horizon is wrong I don't
know why this is um and then num M's
should not matter for our function okay
so I'm trying to think what we want to
do
here these Neptune runs are nice but
they're very
slow I kind of just want to do a quick
like local
local plot
thing because we really need to test
this way
faster breakfast will be in like an hour
and then I'll be back for 4 uh 4: or5
lunch back for 4 or5 dinner back for 4
you know that will be the deal
today
um I'm going to try to rewrite a lot of
the carbs code as well I think was it's
a
mess they did a really good job on the
algorithm and the results but you
know engineering is
engineering that's my that is my
department
um I'm trying to think how I want to do
this I think I can just
do I'm going to do there's GPD we're
going to cheat on just like a couple
small things and use we'll be
lazy just for a few things I'm not
familiar
with basics
okay perfect this is all we
need carbs
h
there we
go I don't know why the hell that was so
hard
okay so we'll
do scores
this just
do 10 score
and
it's okay let's see what this does
cuz I'm sick of waiting so long for this
basic basic basic
test
uh on my local box here is that
okay hang
on looks like it should be okay
no this is I'm on the wrong okay I need
to get on to I need to go grab the code
off of my main
box
yeah I want to do this locally
so I can
plot what in the hell oh I don't know
why it's building HTML there
okay perfect so let's get rid of
this and let's just like get rid of all
these extra confusing
terminals have all this I really should
have just rebooted before I started
sping but
whatever okay this should be good
and
next get the ablations
code okay perfect so let's see
let's see if this
works get
plotly I think it's still not going to
be super fast because CBS fits a model
every
iteration um
this operation not supported
uh
okay I guess maybe I do need to do this
in a local
plot that's kind of obnoxious
I mean I really I can just honestly
print the damn score to be
honest not that big a
deal what what the hell is this
operation not
permitted like
what on Earth am I on the wrong
box
oh all
right okay cool so here we have this
score okay
ah something's weird
there they came back with the same score
a whole bunch
must have sampled the same
point it does still take it quite a bit
to
sample it's faster than before at least
but okay so I mean maybe we'll look at
that as well cuz it's kind of silly for
to be taking that long to
sample we'll let that run in the
background so now we have just like CLI
version of this um
this is going to just be short morning
session um before breakfast I mean I the
main thing I want to do is I want to
just figure out exactly how I want to
restructure all this code and stuff
today you got Min bound and Max bound
compensate for floats being bad bounds
for
integers compensate for
floats I don't think that's a thing
and then this rounding factor is also
kind of silly
okay so this is working as before you
can see here it's very nicely finding
better and better results over
time
um yeah there's just like a lot of extra
Jank in
here that's not
needed e
I think what we're going to do is we're
just going to
restructure
basic round tenser in basic I don't know
if they actually need this rounding
so they got a fair number of things
here
rounds a lot of this stuff we don't
really need to care
is
saved I think what we would want to do
with this is instead of having carbs be
responsible for saving itself to a
specific back end uh we just make it
really easy to get and load the model
in that would probably be
better I'm going to let this run so I
make sure that this is good I'm going to
be right back um 10ish minutes and then
we will we'll start on this for a little
bit before
breakfast
e
e e
okay we are
back Perfect Look at
that 250
260 exactly as intended so this
is this is our Baseline right here this
is going to be our Baseline
and we have it in Neptune the exact same
thing okay there's just so much crap in
here
um
checkpoint like this WB Runner is
actually it's kind of nice what they
have like the functionality is good but
the code's a
mess why is it this complic let me
see WB
restore load latest
checkpoint oh they're checkpointing like
all the carb
okay I'm confused cuz I don't even think
this thing does
does multi- Noe right
look I don't know we'll figure out multi
Noe later this uh we're going to get
good single node working and ignore this
[__] for now I'll put it back later if
we need it this is
silly we're going to just start cutting
code here
okay e
better and then these things have me in
as well
right okay
so
men going to get men
Go's
crazy f
next thing I want to do is figure out
the
sampling H I should probably make sure I
didn't break it first right I should
probably get this to run as is
okay so that actually is good stuff that
I'm deleting here but I don't want it
linked to WAN so we'll redo that better
later
and looks like it
runs ah okay here we go round tensor in
basic I don't think that this is needed
so I think what we're going to do is
we're just going to get rid of
it let me think
I could see it kind of being useful but
I don't think it's
needed we'll
see the thing is
like it's generating samples
and then ranking them so yeah kind of
but if you were to just generate the
samples I don't know maybe we'll
consider adding the rounding we'll see
but I don't like the way that they were
doing it it's very error
prone can we actually just see if this
is the exact same as before
that's not the exact same CL it's
actually a way
higher see if this is any
good and then the next thing here is
going to be
generate
candidates okay so this
is this is not great
here get probabilities in search space
what the heck is this
okay there that's
working um
yeah so you want the parameters here
because you need the the scale for
sampling oh yeah look at that we're at
140 this should be
good I'm conf I'm confident that that's
that this is working
um let's
see where are the
parameters so this is Origins and basic
here and see they're nicely
normalized uh it didn't give us the the
samples
basic space to Pam
space basics phace
two suggestions in basic
where the heck is the
um real number input is X
search distribution in
basic where was the freaking
there should be a dim
here where's like
the we want to get the the per uh per
variable
Dimension here's dim.
Min Min bounds in basic
hey
linky oh wait maybe I can do this
um scale in
basic maybe I can do it like
this um linky I'm think going to doing
the micro code updates either today or
tomorrow depending on I want to focus on
this for now but are you around at some
point like I don't know if there's
anything I need to know other than just
like go stick it on a flash drive and
try not to screw up the
machines I'd like to get all the
machines nice and stable
I'm going to be placing an order for our
first 5090
box um on Monday and then that'll be the
test box so whenever we get those in and
then in 2 to 3 months we'll have uh the
likely two to three months we're looking
at for the big
cluster so carbs is coming uh is coming
in handy here it's going to really let
us get a lot out of the
compute for
uh wait search distribution in
basic this is it right
yeah so this is bad right here
so this is going to be s
dot search
just normal
let me see if you can do this
really ah it's because it's just dim.
scale
okay
so search
distribution
basic very
nice
size look at
that that's perfect
so this will
run almost
DM the motherboard of the boxes I'll
look up they might be they might have
different motherboards let me see let me
go look that up real quick I should have
the order
history uh I'll just put it in Discord
or chat or whatever let me
see go check my mangar
or I just got an email from a VC just
like lots of
snakes played with your snake demo can
we
help it was funny
I need to know which
motherboards and you'll need to be sure
that they installed to the yeah let me
go I'm looking right now I got
distracted CU I like I just opened my
work email and I had like a ridiculous
VC email it's
funny it's effective got my
attention it's so funny
though lots of
[Music]
snakes what's this
box is the Risen one
oh they literally
have they literally sent me a bios
update
guide let me see what motherboard it
is the one thing I can't
find actually can you just list it is
there a is there a quick way to just
list your motherboard from
console there should be
right I know how to list your CPU
okay I found
uh main gear
oh that's for two boxes
okay yeah so the the newest
ones
it's let me send you this and then we'll
get back to
carbs cuz there's all sorts of carbs to
be
done uhoh that's not good is
it oh yeah we fix that
fine I just put this in gem
chat I think they did send me a guide
one second
folks the hell is this on
I just got sent an awful piece of
code
see I I can show this this is just e3b
uh I implemented this thing yesterday
and I got s a reference implementation
it looks
awful I don't even see where they call
this I mean this can't be good though
is this their
entire yeah this is what I
do I don't know why they have any of
this they shouldn't even have any
is okay so it is a nograd
um let me think if we can do
this I think we actually
might be able to do
this yeah I think we actually can so
this implementation makes no sense to me
because
this should this Loop shouldn't be
there
e
e e
okay there we go just had to answer one
thing where is
my where's my
restream oh there it is hold
on put this back here and let's fix
the let's see if I have a little more
time to fix this carbs thing before
breakfast
oh there's one other figure I just want
to send to
that
e e
cool every so often I just got to do um
you know I got to do some random stuff
like
that answer some
things okay let's figure out this I want
to figure this out
before uh I want to figure this out
before
breakfast let me
see so num sample
self real dim
10 search
distri in basic
okay I think that because I have this
now I just get to drop real
dim and I think that this is
correct let's
see found two different
devices
okay this is probably just
the this tensor
being where does this get transferred to
a
device I don't see a
device search radius in basic
this get
used this scale length is
sketchy they don't specify a device on
this do they
hang
on did these somehow get moved on to
GPU oh there's a two device here
I don't know where device gets
set yeah so this is not a CA
tensor I didn't think search
distribution in basic was a Cuda tensor
either though right I don't think I
changed that let me see
oopss so this is just a
normal and this doesn't have
uh this doesn't have anything on
it so where is this screwing
up
underscore I don't ever see this getting
moved on to to the
GPU let me
see self
search in
basic what the heck does this even do
I don't actually know what the heck this
even
does this is very weird get probability
in Surf
space adity
[Music]
h e
I'm a little confused as to why this
function
exists relative
probabilities based on their
distance from a set of origin
points okay
maximum
probability
okay
e e
so distance measured how far is from
each
origin distance is evaluated using log
prob see a gaus can have high
probabilities okay why the hell is that
a reasonable thing to
do
for e
okay I don't understand why they're
doing
this they already have a g I process
here I wish I could just get on a call
with these guys but they're doing other
stuff um let me see if I can find this
in their paper because to me this
doesn't make sense this is like I
actually I understand what they're doing
but I don't understand why they're doing
it okay here it is right here's their
distance function
this is
demo okay so here's their
paper let's flip the scene over to
review okay
let me see if they actually do they say
anything about this
scoring ah is this it hold on we
Define I think this is
it we Define the surf space as a set of
gussan distribution
this so this is it right
here candidates are suggested but then
they score them
think we're going to do we're going to
go to Claud
um going to go to Claud for
this there's nothing better I can do
that lets you drop in a whole PDF right
there're no better
models
for
e
e e
I think that this
is they might have a reason for doing
this but I don't think they have an
ablation and I don't think that this is
well
explained so they Define the search
space uh as gaussian around
here if we assume we have observations
this is the Pito
front I don't understand what this PE
search is being used
for this is a little
tricky oh come on
unexpected capacity C strains my ass am
I not logged
in high dimensional search
Bases traditional basement and
optimizations over explore highly un
certain regions by restricting the
search space
yeah but that doesn't address
anything e
sampling candid around foro points down
waiting for
some
yes okay so the only
thing that's so this is what I'm
currently
doing um
you might have to lower the sigma values
though
like a fair
bit that's a little tricky actually let
me think about
this
e
e e
okay
so I just use this to make sure I'm not
being completely stupid most of the time
um basically what I'm looking at
here is the the way in which we're
sampling parameters
this looks
good
fixter larger yeah so this is what I was
wondering if it's if it should be
learnable
e
e e
let's say about this
okay I think that this should be
better let's
see e
okay we're going to try this I think I
found a good update to this algorithm
so we're going to remove this completely
and
then yeah we're going to remove this
completely it doesn't actually even use
this one here so we can get rid of that
it does use these probabilities it looks
like let's see about these candidates
so here these are the
probabilities and
[Music]
then where does it use
these acquisition
function okay so it only uses these
prior
probability Central equation acquisition
function
value EI value Max cost maass
so let's take a look at this
okay
oops let me find the paper
again where'd it
go okay here we
are
um where's the acquisition function
this okay this is the acquisition
function okay so here's the
math I have to take a second to
understand this the final model is fit
only using
observations that belong on the Paro
front I don't understand why the hell
you would do
that why would you
train why would you train a model just
on the Paro front like this
so they have gpy predicts performance of
a candidate okay this is good cost
function right and then Optimal
Performance corresponding to that cost
predict the Optimal
Performance
gpf this doesn't seem like this should
be a gaussian process to mean this seems
like this should be a freaking like
logistic regress this should be like
a like a logistic regression or
something it's on like a few data
points what does a galaxian process even
give you when you do that let me see so
you
take radio basis function
they take observations in the Paro front
I don't understand this this seems like
a very simple regression right where you
just have cost and you have
um you just have cost and you have
score I think I'm going to leave this
one alone for now though we'll play with
that one later because we're changing
too much stuff at the same time
okay so the acquisition function seeks
to improve performance relative to the
corresponding point on the Pito
front with the expected cost we can use
the Pito value to write the expected
improvement with
respect to the Pito
front Okay so you have
gpy which is the performance of the
candidate
minus the actual performance of the
corresponding point on the Pito
front I don't I know why they take
Relic I'm going to ignore the fact that
there's a re there I don't know why they
clip it like that but
whatever oh I guess because they already
have the Pito front point so that you
can't do worse than the Pito point cuz
you already have it I
guess but that's kind of weird I guess
maybe it's just they're making they
don't want negative if they're treating
these as probabilities they don't want
negative probabilities or something
though you could just normalize so I I
don't know what's up with
that
um the final suggestion is simply a
Max
oh I don't know if that's particularly
good that they take a Max instead of
sampling
so they multiply by P
surch so this component is actually this
component looks pretty good to
me this component looks pretty
bad the next dsection fill and details
okay uniformly Waits improvements across
the entire Paro
front we seek to
balance threshold sample a cost a
threshold cost
from a log
distribution okay I got to figure this
one
out this is complicated
stuff I mean I'm not a m I'm like I'm
really not that math heavy so it's like
this stuff takes a
while hold on
all right I'm going to go for breakfast
um I will be back in a bit and we will
continue on this this is what I'm going
to be doing all day I'm
uh I think we're going to be able to
really improve this thing
cuz I don't think they have ablations on
everything right unless I'm totally
wrong let me make sure I'm not just
totally wrong
clamping yeah so they have clamping
resampling we'll look at this when we
come back I'll make sure I'm not being
stupid and that they actually you know
have ablations on these but my
expectation is that they don't have
ablations on all these little details so
I'll be back in a bit um let me see
something uh for folks on YouTube I'll
be back in like an hour but in the
meantime if you're interested in
following all this stuff all the links
are on puffer doai you can start the
GitHub helps us out a ton take a look
through the code there we've got like a
900 person Discord lots of helpful
people if you're looking to get involved
in RL contributing whatever